---
layout: post
title: "[Redux] Redux under the hood 리덕스 작동원리"
date: 2021-03-14
categories: Frontend
tags: [javascript, react, redux]
---

## 작동순서
1. Create and dispatch actions based on the event
2. Reducers process the actions, computing the new state
3. The new state of the whole application goes into a single store
4. Components receive the new state as props and re-render themselves where needed

## State Tree
Single source of truth for our date/state. The state tree is read only, meaning we cannot modify or write to it directly. The only way to change it is by dispatching actions.

## Actions
An action is a plain JS object to trigger state mutations. They describe what should change, having no idea how to make that change. Actions can optionally carry payload.

Actions are identified by a string called **action type**. Action types are strings because they need to be serializable.

## Reducers
Reducers are pure functions which describe state mutations. They do know the implementation details for those changes.

### Reducer composition pattern
Top level reducer will be made out of a bunch of other smaller reducers.
```js
const rootReducer = (state, action) => ({
  count: counterReducer(state.counter, action),
  alert: alertReducer(state.alert, action)
});
```

## Store
There can be only one single instance of the store in a Redux app.

## What causes Re-render
(뇌피셜)
```js
const mapStateToProps = (state) => ({
  auth: state.auth,
});
```
State가 store에서 받아온 값이고 여기서 auth만을 추출하여 return하면 이를 props에 추가하여 보내준다.
props는 매번 shallow comparison을 통해 re-render를 결정한다.


Reference:\
https://medium.com/@fknussel/redux-3cb5aac94a66\

<style>
  .responsive-wrap{ display:flex; justify-content:center;}
</style>
<div class="responsive-wrap">
  <iframe width="300" height="250" allowtransparency="true" src="https://tab2.clickmon.co.kr/pop/wp_ad_300.php?PopAd=CM_M_1003067%7C%5E%7CCM_A_1086005%7C%5E%7CAdver_M_1046207&mon_rf=REFERRER_URL" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>
